
   Mailgate.ORG Web Server [Previous] [Next] [Reply] [Index] [Home]
   [Find] 
   
                                  IFRAME:
   http://ad.activeadv.net/html.ng/params.richmedia=yes&site=mail&sezione
                           =mail-genr&pos=ban-std
                   Clicca qui per maggiori informazioni 
                                      
     * Newsgroups: news.software.b, news.software.nntp,
       news.software.readers
     * From: usenet@agate.Berkeley.EDU ()
     * Subject: FAQ: Overview database / NOV General Information
     * Date: 2 Jul 1998 10:02:01 -0000
     * Organization: University of California, Berkeley
     * Expires: 08/03/98
     * Reply-To: usenet@agate.Berkeley.EDU (Usenet FAQ Poster)
     _________________________________________________________________
   
Posted-By: auto-faq 2.4
Archive-name: nov-faq

                          Table Of Contents:
                          ------------------

        What is `threading' and why is it good for you?
        What is the Overview/NOV database?
        What is the format of the NOV database?
        What optional headers should I configure into the NOV database?
        What is XOVER?
        How do I know if my NNTP server does XOVER?
        What does it buy me?
        How much disc space does the Overview database take up?
        What News Transport Systems support NOV/XOVER and where can I
                get it?
        What Newsreaders Support NOV/XOVER?
        Is there a reference threading implementation for NOV?
        Any tips on configuring the Overview database?
        Contributions to NOV FAQ.

------------------------------

Subject: What is `threading' and why is it good for you?

I put this in first as a background question.

As news volume has grown in the last couple of years, the organization
of the data presented to the user has become more important.  With the
possibility of being presented with several hundred articles to read
in a newsgroup, newer newsreaders have incorporated features that
organize things by subject, and sort them in the order posted, and
`thread' articles in groups according to who replied to who.  Note
there is a difference between subject sorting and date sorting, and
threading.

This subject sorting and threading can be expensive using normal
NNTP commands, as it involves opening each article and transferring it
over to the client, for a relatively small bit of information.  This
led to newsreader authors extending the NNTP command set so that they
could set up an auxiliary database of just the information they
needed.  The database would be updated as news arrived on the server,
and when a client requested thread information about a particular
group, it would just open one file and send it out, which made things
pretty zippy.

The downside of this, was that every newsreader had their own
threading database, their own specialized NNTP extension, and it was
customized to their `way' of doing threads.  Trn, NN, and tin are
prime examples.  Each database occupies a fair amount of space, and
in the case of trn and tin, the daemons that maintain the databases
use up a nontrivial amount of system resources.

------------------------------

Subject: What is the Overview/NOV database?

The Overview or News OverView (NOV) database was designed by Geoff
Collyer.  It's a more generalized database, in that it contains *no*
threading information, just the information needed to thread.  The
overview database is just a database of files, one for each group,
containing a reference to each article, with seven or eight of the
most popular headers.  Thus, the newsreader client can get most of the
information it needs to thread, but it does the threading the way it
wants to.  Yes, the downside is that now the threading occurs on the
client's CPU, but that's not as expensive as it may seem, if done
properly.

------------------------------

Subject: What is the format of the NOV database?

[this is stolen from Geoff Collyer's newsoverview(5) man page]

Each newsgroup directory contains a file named  `.overview',
containing  one-line  summaries  of  articles in that group.  Fields
are separated by tabs, and any tabs  or  newlines  in the  original
articles  headers  have  been  replaced  with spaces.  The fields are,
in  order:  article  number  (file name),  subject,  author, date,
message-id, references, byte  count, line count, and optionally other
headers, as arranged  locally  (none  are  supplied  by  the  database
maintenance software, as shipped).  The line-count and references
field may  be  empty.   If the optional other headers are present,
they include their header keyword and  colon;  if  they  are absent
entirely, the tab after the line-count field may also be absent.

ie:

    artid|subject|From|Date|Message-Id|References|bytecount|linecount|\
                Optional-Header: Stuff

where | represents a tab and \ a line continuation (there are no
continuation lines in the Overview entry, it's just so that the above
line fits in 80 columns).

Remember that header keywords in optional headers should be matched
case insensitively.

------------------------------

Subject: What optional headers should I configure into the NOV database?

It's nice to configure the pseudo-header Xref: in.  Xref: is a site
specific header that, if present, tells where that are article has been
cross posted.  It is useful for newsreaders who want to kill cross
posted articles, you've told them to kill.

------------------------------

Subject: What is XOVER?

XOVER is an NNTP extension for accessing the Overview database.  It
is becoming a defacto standard for accessing bulk header/thread
information via NNTP.

It is used after establishing a current group with the GROUP command,
and operations on that group.  It's syntax is

        XOVER artnumber1[-artnumber2]

Where artnumber1 is < artnumber2.  If successful, it returns a 224
reply code, and the overview data [as in the Overview database] for
the requested articles.  It is terminated by a "." (dot) on a line by
itself.

NNTP servers implementing the XOVER command should try to ensure that
the data is as consistent as possible, they should avoid handing out
XOVER information for articles that don't exist, and should generate
XOVER information on the fly for articles that do exist, but aren't
found in the Overview database for some reason.  While the job of
XOVER is to provide access to the Overview database, validating the
Overview data is best done in the NNTP server, rather than having the
NNTP client go through contortions to do it.

------------------------------

Subject: How do I know if my NNTP server does XOVER?

By initially trying it, and looking at the response code.  Before
doing a GROUP in your session, you should get back a 500 (no such
command) response if the server doesn't implement XOVER, and a 412
(not in a newsgroup) response, if it does.

------------------------------

Subject: What does it buy me?

Speed, if you have newsreader clients that can take advantage of this,
disc space if you are currently supporting more than one version of a
threading database.

If used by the NNTP daemon, XHDR can be speed up by *orders* of
magnitude by using the Overview database.

------------------------------

Subject: How much disc space does the Overview database take up?

About 10% of what your news spool space is.

------------------------------

Subject: What News Transport Systems support NOV/XOVER and where can I
         get it?

INN 1.4 and greater supports the Overview database and XOVER right out
of the box.

The Performance release of C News (October 18th, 1994) supports the
Overview database.  To use the XOVER extension with C News and NNTP,
you need Stan Barber's NNTP reference package  (via ftp via ftp.uu.net
in /networking/news/nntp/nntp.1.5.12.1.tar.Z).

HighWind Software's commercial News Server solutions: "Typhoon" and
"Breeze" fully support the NOV/XOVER standard. They can be obtained at
HighWind's web site: http://www.highwind.com/

------------------------------

Subject: What Newsreaders Support NOV/XOVER?

Among `officially released' newsreaders trn3.6 and later, slrn, and tin-1.22
support both the Overview database and XOVER.

Win-VN 99.07 for MS-Windows supports XOVER [Alan Thew].

RNR v1.25 and up for MS-DOS support the Overview database
         [Russell Schulz].

Netscape, the WEB browser, supports XOVER.

As of version 1.00 Free Agent supports XOVER.

Geoff has modified `proof of concept' newsreaders in
ftp.std.com:/src/news/ that support the Overview database (*not*
XOVER).  These are getting rather long in the tooth.

Version 6.5.0 of NN (which is in late beta) is fully NOV capable.  It
is available from ftp://ftp.uwa.edu.au/pub/nn/beta/nn-6.5.0.b3.tar.gz.

There are some excellent patches by Felix Lee that allow GNUS to
support XOVER (plus some kool async transfer mods).  Perhaps he'll
post them again soon.  Perhaps they will be integrated into GNUS.

Ding, an offshoot of GNUS supports XOVER.

------------------------------

Subject:  Is there a reference threading implementation for NOV data?

Yes, in Geoff Collyer's package at
ftp.std.com:/src/news/nov.dist.tar.gz.

------------------------------

Subject: Any tips on configuring the Overview database?

It's probably a good idea to configure in the optional pseudo header
Xref:, as many newsreaders like to see it.

Make sure you put the .overview files somewhere besides where you put
the articles (normally /usr/spool/news).  If, for example,
/usr/spool/news/news/answers has 10,000 articles plus the ".overview"
file, then the open() call may need to search through up to 10,001
filenames  to find the ".overview" file.  If, instead, you put the
overview database info /usr/spool/news/over.view then the ".overview"
file could be found almost instantly.  Part 3 of the INN FAQ has tips
on making this change for INN.

If newsreading is totally limited to NNTP, you might want to consider
putting your Overview database on another partition on another disc
(if you have space).  This buys you more room for news on your spool
disc, and also spreads the disc accesses out across multiple drives,
reducing the beating your spool partition is going to take.

------------------------------

Subject: Contributions to NOV FAQ.

Thanks to the following for contributions, additions, corrections, and
updates:

    Jerry Aguirre <jerry@strobe.ATC.Olivetti.Com>
    Geoff Collyer <geoff@world.std.com>
    Wayne Davison <davison@trn.com>
    Christopher Davis <ckd@eff.org>
    Jason Haar <j.haar@cantva.canterbury.ac.nz>
    Damon Hart-Davis <d@exnet.co.uk>
    Andrei Ivanov <iva@lynx.riga.lv>
    Iain Lea <iain@anl433.erlm.siemens.de>
    Tom Limoncelli <tal@plts.org>
    Mark Linimon <linimon@nominil.lonesome.com>
    J.B. Nicholson-Owens <jbn@mystery-train.msilink.com>
    Doug Sewell <doug@cc.ysu.edu>
    Russell Schulz <Russell_Schulz@locutus.ofB.ORG>
    Alan Thew <News.Admin@liverpool.ac.uk>
    Vince Vielhaber <vev@cinnamon.michvhf.com>
    FUNASAKA Junichi <zyunit-h@is.aist-nara.ac.jp>

This NOV FAQ was originally written by Rob Robertson <robr@hotwired.com>
and is now maintained by UC Berkeley Communication and Network Services.
This posting, like much of Usenet, is maintained on a purely volunteer
basis.  Reactions, additions, and corrections are welcome via email at
usenet@agate.berkeley.edu
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   Mailgate.ORG Web Server [Previous] [Next] [Reply] [Index] [Home]
   [Find] 
   Mailgate.ORG is maintained online by Dario Centofanti
